[Term Entry] Dart Type Conversion .toString() (#4598)
Codecademy/docs: content/dart/concepts/type-conversion/terms/toString/toString.md

---
Title: '.toString()'
Description: 'Converts the object into a string representation.'
Subjects:

>   - 'Computer Science'
>   - 'Mobile Development'
>   - 'Code Foundations'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Moble Development'
```

Tags:

>   - 'Dart'
>   - 'Data Types'
>   - 'Strings'
>   - 'Method'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Dart'
  - 'Data Types'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Strings'
```

CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn-dart'
>   - paths/computer-science'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-dart'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
```

---

In Dart, the **`.toString()`** method converts the object into a string representation.

## Syntax

```pseudo
typeObject.toString()
```

Above, `typeObject.toString()` calls the `toString()` method on the object `typeObject`.

## Example

The following example demonstrates how the `.toString()` method is used to convert numbers to a string:

```dart
void main() {
  int numbers = 123;
  var result = numbers.toString();
  print(result);
}
```

The code shown above will generate the following output:

```shell
123
```

> **Note:** The output `123` is a string. This can be confirmed by checking `result is String` and `result.runtimeType`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The output `123` is a string. This can be confirmed by checking `result is String` and `result.runtimeType`.
```

---
Title: '.toString()'

> Description: 'Returns a string which represents the underlying type.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Converts the object into a string representation.'
```

Subjects:
 - 'Computer Science'
 - 'Mobile Development'
 - 'Code Foundations'
Tags:
 - 'Dart'
 - 'Data Types'
 - 'Strings'
 - 'Method'
CatalogContent:
 - 'learn-dart'
 - paths/computer-science'
---

> In Dart, the **`.toString()`** method Returns a string representation of an object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Dart, the **`.toString()`** method converts the object into a string representation.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo

> val.toString()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
typeObject.toString()
```

```

> 
> Above, `val.toString()` is calling the `toString()` method on the object `val`. This method returns a string representation of the object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Example

> In the Example below, the `.toString()` method is used to convert numbers to a string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example demonstrates the usage of the `.toString()` method:
```

```dart
void main() {
  int numbers = 123;
  var result = numbers.toString();
  print(result);
}
```

The code shown above will generate the output:

```shell

> '123'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
123
```

```

> 
> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** The output `123` is a string. This can be confirmed by checking `result is String` and `result.runtimeType`.
```
